

Case 2 - Professor Green 

Case 2 – Professor Green Writeup!

In this project, Professor Green and his team, two Masters students, will be collecting research data regarding teamwork in hospital environments. They have two primary means of data collection. The first will consist of 383 documents for a textual/content analysis; these files are currently in various formats and stored on Zotero. Quantitative data regarding the textual analysis is stored in a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet The second type of data will be audio recordings and transcriptions from interviews with informants; audio recordings will be encoded in MP3 format at 128kbps. Professor Green will also utilize open source datasets regarding healthcare in his research. Currently, Professor Green stores his data in three locations: Zotero, Dropbox, and Google Docs. Our data management team suggests using part of the budget to purchase a secure database for storage. The first option we suggest is that Professor Green utilizes Dalhousie's' institutional repository which provides a stable URL, access control, and is easy to use. It can handle the different file formats Professor Green uses and he will be able to directly analyze his data. The second and third option are two cloud based repositories that Professor Green are familiar with and know how to use. The second option is purchasing a DropBox Business account for teams. The standard account costs $17.50 a month and provides 2 TB of storage; this will provide enough storage as Professor Green's research project grows. A DropBox Business account will provide storage, security, access from different locations, version history and file recovery, and advance sharing permissions that Professor Green can control. The third option is purchasing a G Suite Business account which gives more features to Google Docs. With this type of account, Professor Green has 1TB of cloud storage, administration controls, archive, and has a low price of $10 USD a month. Our suggestion is DropBox as Professor Green is familiar with it and can control the access to data. The data created by Professor Green's research is highly sensitive and he does not want this data shared with anyone. Any data created by his research will be encrypted before being deposited into DropBox and will have any identifying information anonymized. Original data will not be shared, but notes recorded by Green himself will be made accessible to his Masters students. 

To improve the use of Green's data, we will implement a metadata standard. Data created by his project will be tagged in XML using the Data Documentation Initiative format. This is a widely used international standard for describing data from both social and science fields. Metadata will provide context about data for his team since they will not be allowed to access data without Green's approval. Green will hold intellectual property rights for all his research data and information that is directly created by the project. Green is adamant that the data for this experiment is held closely, however if he were to publish this a copyright license will ensure that his data is not used by anyone.  

To protect the privacy of the informants, Professor Green will use an informed consent form. The form states that the researchers will not identify the participant by name in an information resulting from the interview and that confidentiality will be kept at all times. Data is subject to the standard practice of anonymizing data to ensure this privacy; any identifying information will be limited to Professor Green and will only be kept on the master copy on his USB key. During analysis and storage, only Green and approved members of his research team will be allowed to access sensitive data. After being uploaded to DropBox, any direct identifies will be removed.  

Data obtained from healthcare organizations are currently stored in a Zotero database in various formats. To ensure preservation of data, it is suggested that the document files and transcripts of interviews be converted into a single file format of PDF. This will not alter the content of data in any form, but will ensure that the documents can be accessed in the future and that the data cannot be altered. PDF provides a high level data encryption and offers a secure way to transfer data over the internet. Green can customize the user access level, setting it so he is the only one who can access the files and add a digital signature to further protect his work. Once the various formats are changed to PDF there will be less variation on file formats. Excel spreadsheets are used to keep track of quantitative data. Phone interviews will be recorded as MP3 files. Each audio file is estimated to be 57.6 MB and will require 864 MB of storage in total.  

Preservation and archiving Green's data will occur through DropBox and a master copy of all files will be backed up on both an external USB key and a hard-drive. Green's assigned data manager will be tasked with migrating research data to new formats, platforms, and storage as required for the continuation of his research. A master copy of each file will be contained in the USB key and backed up on the repository in a secure zipped folder. The data files from Green's project will be managed, processed, and stored in a secure environment by the researcher himself. As the data managers for this project, we will instruct Green on how to secure his laptop and install a strong firewall system to further protect his data. The folder containing files for his project will be both encrypted and password protected. Professor Green has assigned us to be the data managers of this project, meaning we will act as stewards for the data throughout the data life cycle. At the conclusion of the current grant, we will give all data management plan documents to the new assigned data manager.  

Green's project makes use of 383 documents from healthcare organizations for his textual analysis. We recommend that once it is completed, the files will be archived and retained for 1 year after this part of the project is completed. Data generated from phone interviews will be both recorded and transcribed. Transcriptions will be retained by the repository as part of the permanent research data and the MP3 files can be archived after they are transcribed. Green has noted that there is currently a binder of printed Excel spreadsheets from a previous study. It is our recommendation that Green's trained Masters students go through to find any relevant data to the current research; we are only data managers and are not familiar with the healthcare field. We will digitize any relevant data to the repository.  

A private GitHub account will be used in tangent of DropBox to manage version control during the course of Green's research; it will also act as a backup of any data. A standardized naming convention will be employed for different versions of Green's data. They will consist of a determined prefix, root and suffix system. This will ensure that Green and his team know which is the most recent version of their data analysis and allow the team to access previous versions at any time. Separate fills will be managed for the different types of data produced; I.e. there will be one folder for documents, interviews, and notes. Costs for creating, maintaining, and storing data will be covered by a grant Professor Green has received from CIHR. Budget resources will go towards paying for a digital repository, DropBox, and ensuring version control for the long term plan of the research project. 

 

Sections I didn't cover: Legal requirements, quality assurance, audience 

I think it needs work with more technical info, but I'm not good at that:( 
 
 

What data will be created or collected (type, size, format, etc.) 

Interdisciplinary primary care teams, team work in hospital environments 

Textual content analysis, 383 documents (teams, outcomes and practices) word, pdf, plain text and other. All are digital 

Conducting 15 interviews with key informants, 60 mins each, recorded as mp3 files, transcribed in microsoft word, asked q’s about how care teams work, concerned with loss of jobs, reputations. 

What licenses apply to the data 

Professor Green wants copyrights in place 

What facilities and equipment will be required (hard disk space, backup server, central repository, off-site repository, etc.) 

What data management practices (backups, storage, access control, archiving etc.) will be used 

Who will own and have access to the data 

Professor Green 

Which data will retain value after the life of the project 

What metadata and linked open data strategies will be employed 

Interviews conducted over the phone 

Languages: English, German, French 

How will its reuse be enabled and long-term preservation ensured after the original research is completed 

How much will the storage of this data cost (cloud and/or hard drives) 

 
 

Data Lifecycle 

Creating Data 

Design research 

Plan data management (formats, storage etc.) 

Plan consent for sharing 

Locate existing data 

Collect data (experiment, observe, measure, simulate) 

Capture and create metadata 

Processing Data 

Enter data, digitize, transcribe, translate 

Check, validate, clean data 

Anonymize data where necessary  

Interviews encrypted, anonymized, limited access 

Promised confidentiality to participants, small community, numeric identifications and legend stored separately. Secure database. 

Describe data 

Manage and store data 

Analysing Data 

Interpret data 

Derive data 

Produce research outputs 

Author publications 

Prepare data for preservation 

Preserving Data 

Migrate data to best format 

Migrate data to suitable medium 

Back-up and store data 

Storing data under zotero database 

Quantitative data stored in excel spreadsheet 

Suggest backup on secure cloud, USB not ideal to be travelling with Prof. Green 

Choose 3 options for data storage 

Create metadata and documentation 

15 interviews, each interview is an hour long, and I am encoding them in mp3 format, 128kbps = each file would be 57.6 mbs x 15= 864 mb 

Archive data 

Giving Access to Data 

Distribute data 

Share data 

With masters students and colleagues 

Zotero for documents, dropbox for audio, google docs for transcriptions 

Project meetings 

Binder of printed excel sheets -- MUST be digitized by MASTERS students w/ knowledge of health data, determine relevance. 

"The data is not shared with the public. As I mentioned, it can identify people. Share with my team are the notes I make (recordings, spreadsheets, text files) after I have gone through the data. And that is only shared with my project members. If they want more information, they have to ask me."  

Control access SEE ABOVE, only Prof. Green has full access to data 

Establish copyright 

Promote data 

Re-using Data 

Follow-up research 

New research 

Undertake research reviews 

Scrutinize findings 

Teach and learn 

 
 

Case 2 - Professor Green  

you know we have a mix document files (PDF, Word and plain text). Could you tell us the average size of those documents?  

"the file size ranges from a few hundred kilobytes to 25-30MB."  

Could you please provide us the name or the code for each hospital that you are planning to examining   

"I work with a few hospitals in Nova Scotia, one hospital in France, one in Germany and a few more in Calgary."  

This case did not mentioned the size of some data collection , how we can know the data size?   

"You are the expert! There are 15 interviews, each interview is an hour long, and I am encoding them in mp3 format, 128kbps."  

Is the data that was collected in 2002 related to the data that was mentioned in this case?  

"There might something relevant in the 2002 binder with the printed spreadsheets. I would like for you to look through it. It does not contain anything that can identify participants. "  

Is there a specific size for the zotero database ? Also,how much space do you wish to have for your future research (How much do you think you'll use in 5 years from now?  

"the current size of all my files right now fits in my USB drive which is 64GB and it is not full. There are about 40GB left over. I predict that the data influx will increase in the near future. My research is very important! You say five years? It will be at least ten. I predict it will triple in size."  

There are 383 documents with several formats. Would you like to have them available on the original format or would you be willing to have one standard format for your database ?  

"Why would I want them in one format? Do you plan on changing my original data??"  

'll make use of a specific data storage service. As a Dal faculty member you can make use of the university's space to store your data. Is Dal's repository ok, or do you have any specific preference ?  

"the Dal repository is fine for now, but I would like to know what other options are available. Not too many, two or three would be good."  

If you are required to share interview instruments or anonymized data to conduct your studies, how is this done? What is the language of communication?   

"I am not required to share the original files or interviews. Only information that does not allow for subject identification. That data needs to be translated to the official language of each collaborator's location."  

Please send us a copy of the participant consent form so that we can fully understand the terms of confidentiality and ensure that we don’t breach them. 

https://web.stanford.edu/group/ncpi/unspecified/student_assess_toolkit/pdf/sampleinformedconsent.pdf 

You mentioned earlier that you expect to get a new grant once your current funding runs out. It would be helpful to know who provides your research funding so we can ensure the data management plan we are developing for you adheres to that funder's policies.  

my funding comes from CIHR (Canadian Institutes of Health Research). 

What is the reason that you have your transcriptions stored on Google Drive? Are members of the team doing live collaboration to edit those transcriptions? 

no, I simply like to have quick access to the information, even when I am not on my computer in my office. 

The founding comes from CIHR. Are you working in the Dalhousie or in the Century University? because the consent form shows that you are from Century University and I would like to make sure about that . 

I am working at Dalhousie. The consent form is a general template for consent forms. 

We would like to confirm that the data from the data healthcare providers and internal networks is the same as the open data sets you have collected. What is the type of data and format of the open data sets that you use in your research? 

yes, they are the same. The open data is in tsv files. The type of data is explained in my original briefing file. 

Page Break
 

 

Data description 

Access and Sharing 

Metadata(what types of metadata will support the data and what standards will be used) 

Intellectual Property Rights 

Ethics and Privacy (informed consent) 

Format (submission, distribution, and preservation formats for the data) 

Archiving and Preservation 

Storage and Backup 

Security (how will you ensure the data is secure) 

Responsibility 

Existing Data(relationship between old and new data and how this adds value) 

Selection and Retention Periods 

Data organization (version control, naming convetions) 

Quality assurance 

Budget 



WHAT I HAVE SO FAR
Professor Green 

Data description 

Dr. Green is currently working on a project with two Masters students. In this project, Dr. Green and his team has two methods of data collection. The first is a textual analysis of 383 documents and the second is conducting interviews. This project will collect textual data which consists of a mix of document formats as well quantitative data stored in an excel spreadsheet. The project will produce data in the form of interviews will be conducted over the phone, requiring MP3 files and transcribed to Microsoft word. Dr. Green also uses open data sets regarding healthcare in his research.  

Access and Sharing (section needs work) 

Need help with what repository to use. 

The data created as a result of the interviews is sensitive. Dr. Green has stated that the data for his experiment is not to be shared with anyone. The data will be deposited into (repository?) and the data will have restricted access controlled by Dr. Green.  

Notes recorded by Dr. Green himself will be made accessible to his Masters students.  

Metadata 

Metadata for Dr. Green's project will be tagged in XML using the Data Documentation Inititiative format. This is a widely used international standard for describing data from both social and science fields. Metadata about data will be recorded to give Dr. Green context about what the file contains. 

Intellectual Property Rights 

Dr. Green will hold intellectual property rights for all research data and information directly created by the project.  

Ethics and Privacy 

To protect the privacy of informants, Dr. Green will use an informed consent form. The form states that the researcher will not identify the participant by name in any information resulting from the interview and that confidentiality will be secure. Data will be subject to the standard practice of anonymizing data to ensure privacy. During analysis and storage, only Dr. Green and approved members of his research team will be allowed to access data. The research team will then remove any direct identifiers before it is deposited into the storage repository.  

Format 

Data collection of the documents for textual analysis have been obtained from healthcare organizations and quantitative information regarding these documents will be recorded in a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet using DDI XML metadata documentation. Phone interviews will be recorded as MP3 file format.  

To insure preservation of data, it is suggested that the document files and transcripts of interviews be converted to one file format of PDF. This will ensure that documents can be accessed in the future and will preserve the data as it is, meaning that it cannot be altered. PDF provides a high level data encryption and offers a secure way to transfer data over the internet. Dr. Green can customize the user access level, setting it so he is the only one who can access the files and add a digital signature. A digital signature confirms the authenticity of the text and protect Dr. Green's work. 

Archiving and Preservation / Storage and Backup 

To ensure that the data created by Dr. Green's project is accessible for future use, data will be deposited in (repository) and will be backed up on an external USB key. Dr. Green's Masters students will be tasked with migrating research data to new formats, platforms, and storage as required for the continuation of his research. A master copy of each file will be contained in the USB Key, as well a backup on the repository to ensure digital preservation.  

Security 

The data files from Dr. Green's research project will be managed, processed, an stored in a secure enviroment by the researcher himself. To ensure security, we will install a lockable computer system on his laptop that has a strong firewall system with software to protect from viruses/malware. The folder containing files for his project will be encrypted and password protected. Any identifying information about the informants will be anonymized. 

Responsibility 

Dr. Green has assigned us to be the data manager to act as steward for the data throughout the data lifecylce. At the conclusion of the current grant, we will give all data management plan documentations to the new assigned data manager. 

Existing Data 

There is currently a binder of printed excel spreadsheets, it is our recommendation that Dr. Green's trained Masters students go through to find any relevant data to the current research. We will then provide the students with step by step instructions of how to digitize relevant data. 

Selection and Retention Periods 

Dr. Green's project makes use of 3 